<h2 id="CTIIPWeeklyStatusMeetingJanuary27,2014-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Name
      </th>
      <th>
        Present?
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Larry Clarke
      </td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        John Freymann
      </td>
      <td>
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Jose Galvez
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Ed Helton
      </td>
      <td>
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Justin Kirby
      </td>
      <td>
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Jonathan Lin
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Cheryl Marks
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve Shalley
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Ulli Wagner
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="CTIIPWeeklyStatusMeetingJanuary27,2014-ActionItems">
  Action Items
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        ID
      </th>
      <th>
        Task
      </th>
      <th>
        Who?
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Assigned
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Due
      </th>
      <th>
        Status / Comments
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        1
      </td>
      <td>
        Complete Digital Path SOW
      </td>
      <td>
        Ulli
      </td>
      <td>
        December 15
      </td>
      <td>
        January 31
      </td>
      <td>
        In-process; team needs to review.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        2
      </td>
      <td>
        Update Challenge Workflow &amp; Use Case
      </td>
      <td>
        Eve
      </td>
      <td>
        January 13
      </td>
      <td>
        January 31
      </td>
      <td>
        First draft reviewed with Jayashree and team; these documents also required for Hub project.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        3
      </td>
      <td>
        Set next meeting with Eric Holland&#39;s team (ask him for technical team that will do the work)
      </td>
      <td>
        Eve
      </td>
      <td>
        January 22
      </td>
      <td>
        January 28; February 7
      </td>
      <td>
        Schedule meeting by the 28th; hold meeting by Feb 7, if possible for Eric Holland&#39;s team
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        4
      </td>
      <td>
        Complete Co-clinical SOW
      </td>
      <td>
        Ulli
      </td>
      <td>
        January 2
      </td>
      <td>
        February 15
      </td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        5
      </td>
      <td>
        Complete Challenge SOW
      </td>
      <td>
        Ulli
      </td>
      <td>
        January 2
      </td>
      <td>
        February 28
      </td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        6
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Set up meeting with Joe Kalen and f/u on presentation to IIWG to begin next steps (support provided by Clunie?; NCI is secretary for DICOM WG - how will this be handled?)
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 27
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 28; February 7
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Schedule meeting by the 28th; hold meeting by Feb 7, if possible for Joe Kalen and David Clunie
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        7
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Upload pertinent documents for each sub-project
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        All
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 27
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        On-going
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        8
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Set up meeting with MICCAI Challenge organizers
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        John
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 31; January 14
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Schedule meeting by the 31st; hold meeting by Feb 147, if possible for the group
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        9
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Schedule workshop prior to MMHCC meeting in June - find space, talk with Cheryl
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve, Ed
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 21
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 7
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Determine alternatives for hosting of caMicroscope
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Ulli, Justin, Jonathan
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 28
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 14
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="CTIIPWeeklyStatusMeetingJanuary27,2014-DiscussionSummary/Decisions">
  Discussion Summary / Decisions
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    The group reviewed structure of CTIIP wiki, which was agreed to be useful and appropriate for project management.  Wiki access will be limited to the core management team.
  </li>
  <li>
    The group reviewed action items and added to the list.
  </li>
  <li>
    A question arose about where to host caMicroscope.  Washington University was discussed as one option, as well as potentially within NCI.  John pointed out that where it is hosted is not relevant in terms of using the tool for the challenges, since TCGA can be accessed and images viewed by institutions outside of NCI right now (some of the Genome Data Analysis Centers (GDACs) currently do this).  Research is needed to determine the best approach to hosting in the short and longer term.
  </li>
  <li>
    John reviewed the questions that had come up that would be reviewed with the MICCAI Challenge organizers.
  </li>
</ul>