<h2 id="CTIIPWeeklyStatusMeetingMarch3,2014-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Name
      </th>
      <th>
        Present?
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Larry Clarke
      </td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        John Freymann
      </td>
      <td>
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Jose Galvez
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Ed Helton
      </td>
      <td>
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Justin Kirby
      </td>
      <td>
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Jonathan Lin
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Cheryl Marks
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve Shalley
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Ulli Wagner
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        X
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="CTIIPWeeklyStatusMeetingMarch3,2014-ActionItems">
  Action Items
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        ID
      </th>
      <th>
        Task
      </th>
      <th>
        Who?
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Assigned
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Due
      </th>
      <th>
        Status / Comments
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        1
      </td>
      <td>
        Complete Digital Path SOW
      </td>
      <td>
        Ulli
      </td>
      <td>
        December 15
      </td>
      <td>
        February 14
      </td>
      <td>
        Completed; in review by governance board.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        2
      </td>
      <td>
        Update Challenge Workflow &amp; Use Case
      </td>
      <td>
        Eve
      </td>
      <td>
        January 13
      </td>
      <td>
        January 31
      </td>
      <td>
        Completed.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        3
      </td>
      <td>
        Set next meeting with Eric Holland&#39;s team (ask him for technical team that will do the work)
      </td>
      <td>
        Eve
      </td>
      <td>
        January 22
      </td>
      <td>
        January 28; February 7
      </td>
      <td>
        Completed.  Meeting scheduled for Feb. 25
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        4
      </td>
      <td>
        Complete Co-clinical SOW
      </td>
      <td>
        Ulli
      </td>
      <td>
        January 2
      </td>
      <td>
        February 28
      </td>
      <td>
        In-process
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        5
      </td>
      <td>
        Complete Challenge SOW
      </td>
      <td>
        Ulli
      </td>
      <td>
        January 2
      </td>
      <td>
        February 28
      </td>
      <td>
        In-process
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        6
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Set up meeting with Joe Kalen and f/u on presentation to IIWG to begin next steps (support provided by Clunie?; NCI is secretary for DICOM WG - how will this be handled?)
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 27
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 28; February 7
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Completed. Meeting held on February 4.  Schedule meeting by the 28th; hold meeting by Feb 7, if possible for Joe Kalen and David Clunie
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        7
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Upload pertinent documents for each sub-project
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        All
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 27
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        On-going
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        8
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Set up meeting with MICCAI Challenge organizers
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        John
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 31; January 14
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Completed.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        9
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Schedule workshop prior to MMHCC meeting in June - find space, talk with Cheryl
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve, Ed
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 21
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 7
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Completed.  Space reserved, planning to proceed.  Eve to schedule meeting.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Determine alternatives for hosting of caMicroscope
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Ulli, Justin, Jonathan
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        January 28
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 14
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Completed.  Ed and Ulli discussed - will host at NCI.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        11
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Set up L drive for shared documents
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Jonathan
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 14
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Completed
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        12
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Iterate on PMP
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Eve, Ulli
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 15
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        In-process
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        13
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Review JIRA items for NBIA and AIM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Team
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 3
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        14
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Schedule a meeting with NBIA and AIM users to get feedback on criticality of these tools for their research and new requirements
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        John, Justin, Eve
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 3
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 17
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        John and Justin to broach subject with user group; Eve to set up meeting with list provided by John and Justin
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        15
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Support creation of DICOM SOW
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Stephanie
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 3
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        16
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Support creation of Small Animal Imaging SOW
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        John, Justin, Ulli
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        February 28
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        March 10
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="CTIIPWeeklyStatusMeetingMarch3,2014-DiscussionSummary/Decisions">
  Discussion Summary / Decisions
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    A concern was raised about the future of NBIA and AIM, since there are no development funds for FY2014. Jose Galvez explained that while the development budget was cut due to overall funding constraints, O&amp;M funds are still in place.  The intention is to continue to support both tools to ensure the necessary capabilities are provided to the imaging community.  While CBIIT is no longer in the &#34;software development business&#34;, we are still tasked with ensuring the bioinformatics and IT needs of the cancer research community are met, so there will be instances where we develop a tool or bring in one that already exists.  Jose also commented that this group can participate in defining the on-going / new needs for NBIA and AIM, and can help make the case to CBIIT leadership for 2015 funding.
  </li>
  <li>
    It was agreed that:
    <ul>
      <li>
        we should review the items that have already been documented in JIRA as new requirements for NBIA and AIM
      </li>
      <li>
        we should engage a broader set of users in the field for their input as well.  There are hundreds of registered users for these tools.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    John and Justin are helping Ulli with the SOW for small animal imaging.  We will send Dr. Holland a new draft that includes our expected scope, and will specifically indicate that we wish to use existing data for this project.  If Dr. Holland&#39;s group is unable to provide existing data, alternative researchers to contact include Brian Ross and Andy Becker.
  </li>
</ul>