<h2 id="MeetingNotes3312010-MeetingInformation">
  Meeting  Information
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <td>
        1:00 - 3:00 PM
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Date
      </th>
      <td>
        03/31/2010
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Location
      </th>
      <td>
        NCI conference room and telecon
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Lead: Joshua Phillips and Bea Mahious
<h2 id="MeetingNotes3312010-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Team Member
      </th>
      <th>
        Organization
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Dave Hau
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Greg Raley
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Denis Advic
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Raghu Chintal
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Joshua Phillips
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Beate Mahious
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Patrick McConnell
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Ram Chilukuri
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Tom Digre
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Alan Blair
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="MeetingNotes3312010-MeetingAgenda">
  Meeting  Agenda
</h2>
1. Review of Sprint 1

2. Planning Sprint 2
<h2 id="MeetingNotes3312010-MeetingMinutes">
  Meeting  Minutes
</h2>
<h3 id="MeetingNotes3312010-1.ReviewofSprint1">
  1. Review of Sprint 1
</h3>
Joshua Phillips reviewed the project plan, deliverables, and  milestones - we are on track

Items that went well and went poorly:
<ul>
  <li>
    Joshua: we didn&#39;t get the team together quickly enough, made good progress  on the UML modeling, we should be able to reuse the approach to ECCF  that the caEHR team is taking
  </li>
  <li>
    Tom: prototype came along more slowly than expected because the  technology stack was a little bit in flux, made good progress on  modeling, BDA does not yet support OSGI target development
  </li>
  <li>
    Patrick: we were slow to get the vision/scope together, progress too slow on SRS  and Use Cases, but content good; wiki content and structure is good,  but thinks that the ECCF templates are not finalized
  </li>
  <li>
    Beate: would have liked to spend more time to go through planning meetings so that we have  exact dates and timelines for future meetings/tasks, it is good that we  are integrating with the Con Ops team, great progress on UML/prototype,  good to merge with caDSR team early
  </li>
  <li>
    Ram: more planning meetings would have been helpful to flesh out  items, good progress overall
  </li>
  <li>
    Alan: new to the team
  </li>
  <li>
    Dave: we are a little behind in the project plan, some of this is a  moving target (like ECCF), we should communicate more with other  specification teams (like w/ Raghu on ECCF), we may need to interpret  these standards to fit our needs (e.g. ECCF), need to keep an Agile  mindset and process due to the nature of the project
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="MeetingNotes3312010-2.PlanningSprint2">
  2. Planning Sprint 2
</h3>
Jira will be used  for task tracking
<ul>
  <li>
    We should keep an eye on the Jira  deployment at NCI to make sure we are compatible when it comes online
  </li>
  <li>
    A weekly export to SVN should not be a problem
  </li>
  <li>
    Everyone should log in and select the tasks they can complete in  this sprint
  </li>
</ul>
Requirements will be covered more  by use cases than activity diagrams (per experience with caEHR project)
We will need to define specifically what the  interoperability inter-registry requirements are in order to determine  the standards to select
Our requirements and  use cases should not focus on current functionality, but instead desired  functionality

-&gt; See attachment for Sprint 2 backlog.
<h2 id="MeetingNotes3312010-ActionItems">
  Action  Items
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Name Responsible
      </th>
      <th>
        Action Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Due
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea Mahious
      </td>
      <td>
        enter Sprint 2 backlog into JIRA and inform software engineers to pick their own tasks for Sprint 2.
      </td>
      <td>
        3/31/2010
      </td>
      <td>
        done
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea Mahious
      </td>
      <td>
        Talk to Kumar about weekly export to SVN
      </td>
      <td>
        4/2/2010
      </td>
      <td>
        â€”
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>