<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <td>
        11:00 AM
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Date
      </th>
      <td>
        02/08/2010
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Location
      </th>
      <td>
        telecon
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Moderator/Facilitator: Beate Mahious
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda282010-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Team Member
      </th>
      <th>
        Organization
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Brian Davis
      </td>
      <td>
        3rd Millenium
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Beate   Mahious
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Rick   Kiefer
      </td>
      <td>
        Mayo   Clinic
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Mohamed Keshk
      </td>
      <td>
        SemanticBits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Shantanu
      </td>
      <td>
        Persistent
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda282010-MeetingAgenda">
  Meeting Agenda
</h2>
1. Review prioritized Use Cases with each Business Analysts (30 minutes)
2. Review two new wiki forms based on feedback from Requirements Analysts on Interview Questionnaire (30 minutes)
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda282010-MeetingMinutes">
  Meeting Minutes
</h2>
AGENDA ITEM 1. Review prioritized Use Cases with each Business Analysts

Shantanu:

1. caIntegrator
demo took place Friday, Feb. 5th. Shantanu has a list of requirements from that call. He had a few questions about those and sent those out to Shine. There is a possibility of a second discussion about caIntegrator on Wednesday of this week.

2. TCGA
contacted Tony to schedule a discussion.

3. Requirement sharing (Sue Dubman)
Shantanu sent his formal requirement statement to Sue Dubman for validation.

Shantanu got confirmation from Cui Tao about the use case that he had sent him  on Lex grid and RDF triple and has created a link for that on the master list and on the participant list.

Mohamed:
The following two items are on same priority level:

1. caB2B
Init1dbw6 - contacted Mukesh
reading up on B2B to gain background knowledge
Meeting will be held on wednesday with Denise warzel, Juli Klemm, Mukesh, Rakesh and Mohamed

2. Forms
Medidata  Christo Andonyadis and Dianne Reeves have been contacted

Mohamed requests materials to get up to speed on forms topic. Brian recommends
Mohamed to request from Dianne Reeves some existing forms (computational) and elicit
Christo Andonyadis the Subject matter expert view related to workspace.

This past week Mohamed has researched preparing UML use cases and is has establihsed this capability. He can create UML use cases.

He has a technical question for Denise and will contact her seperately.

AGENDA ITEM  2. Review two new wiki forms based on feedback from Requirements Analysts on Interview Questionnaire
postponed

Q&amp;A:
Rick Kiefer requested clarification on what links need to be in which column on the master list. Requirement links for links we develop as a group and existing materials under notes? we need confirmation from Denise WArzel.

Rick Kiefer brings up question: How important is it to show which summaries have been written based solely on information contained in forum entry and which ones have been written with additional input elicited by email-contact with the submitter.
Bea will clarify with Denise, but is under the impression that the main focus is on getting a complete formal requirement statement. The fact whether it was written with or without further input by the submitter is of lower importance.
Rick will send list to Denise, Brian and Bea for them to get insight in what he is preparing.
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda282010-ActionItems">
  Action Items
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Name Responsible
      </th>
      <th>
        Action Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Due
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea
      </td>
      <td>
        confirmation from Denise on use of two columns: requirements links and notes
      </td>
      <td>
        complete
      </td>
      <td>
        —
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea
      </td>
      <td>
        clarify level of importance on whether a formal requirement statement has been written with or without e-mail contact to submitter
      </td>
      <td>
        complete
      </td>
      <td>
        —
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Rick Kiefer
      </td>
      <td>
        send table to Denise, Bea and Brian
      </td>
      <td>
        complete
      </td>
      <td>
        —
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>