<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <td>
        4:00 PM
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Date
      </th>
      <td>
        12/15/2009
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Location
      </th>
      <td>
        telecon
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Lead: Denise Warzel

Moderator/Facilitator: Beate Mahious
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda12152009-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Team Member
      </th>
      <th>
        Organization
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Denise   Warzel
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Beate   Mahious
      </td>
      <td>
        Semantic   Bits
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Rick   Kiefer
      </td>
      <td>
        Mayo   Clinic
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Larry Wright
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Margaret   Haber
      </td>
      <td>
        NCI CBIIT
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Hua Min
      </td>
      <td>
        Fox Chase
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Baris   Suzek
      </td>
      <td>
        Georgetown
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda12152009-Apologies">
  Apologies
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Brian Davis
  </li>
  <li>
    Patrick McConnell
  </li>
  <li>
    Shantanu Despande
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda12152009-MeetingAgenda">
  Meeting Agenda
</h2>
1.  Update from Requirement Analysts on progress of decomposing forum topics and setting up phone calls. (15 min: Patrick 5, Baris 5,Hua Min 5)
2.  Review script template, master list, naming conventions, etc... - do we need adjustments? (Denise 30 min)
3.  Re-assigning, swapping topics, so we don&#39;t have too many of us calling one and the same stakeholder (Denise / Bea with input from RAs: 10 minutes)
4.  Action Steps (5 minutes)
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda12152009-MeetingMinutes">
  Meeting Minutes
</h2>
1.a. Update from Baris:
<ul>
  <li>
    how many of the 18 assigned forum topics are decomposed? 8 out of 18
  </li>
  <li>
    how many contacts have you made to try to set up an interview? 3 contacts
  </li>
  <li>
    how many phone call interviews are scheduled/confirmed? 2 of the 3 are confirmed and on the calendar
  </li>
  <li>
    are there any issues with any of the the forum topics that you might need help resolving?
    Question: How do we handle requirements arising out of discussions in other projects we are involved in.
    Answer: Requirements that are brought to team member&#39;s attention without being a forum topic should be added to master list. A questionnaire needs to be filled out for them and a submitter needs to be contacted to elicit detailed information.
    Baris will email Denise with specific question about specific requirement.
  </li>
</ul>
1.b. Update from Hua Min:
<ul>
  <li>
    how many of the 18 assigned forum topics are decomposed? 7 out of 18
  </li>
  <li>
    how many contacts have you made to try to set up an interview? 2 contacts
  </li>
  <li>
    how many phone call interviews are scheduled/confirmed? No answer from the two yet. If Hua hasn&#39;t heard from them by noon on Wednesday she will follow up with phone call or email.
  </li>
  <li>
    are there any issues with any of the the forum topics that you might need help resolving?
    Question: Why is, in some cases, the same forum topic listed with more than one initiative.
    Answer: Most likely the content of the Forum topic covers more than one requirement and those requirements are linked to different initiatives. Please double-check whether this is the case.
  </li>
</ul>
Jump to 3rd agenda point while waiting for Denise to call in:
3.  Re-assigning, swapping topics, so we don&#39;t have too many of us calling one and the same stakeholder
Review of following table to assign stakeholders to analysts.
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Number of Topics 12/15/09
      </th>
      <th>
        Submitters
      </th>
      <th>
        Analyst
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        12
      </td>
      <td>
        Sal Mungal
      </td>
      <td>
        Baris (already contacted)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        7
      </td>
      <td>
        Frank Hartel
      </td>
      <td>
        Patrick (agreed with Shantanu by email)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        6
      </td>
      <td>
        Christo Andonyadis
      </td>
      <td>
        Patrick (round 1)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        6
      </td>
      <td>
        Hannes Niedner
      </td>
      <td>
        Hua Min
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        6
      </td>
      <td>
        Jyoti Pathak
      </td>
      <td>
        Shantanu
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        5
      </td>
      <td>
        Bob Freimuth
      </td>
      <td>
        Hua Min (already contacted)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        5
      </td>
      <td>
        Denise Warzel
      </td>
      <td>
        Baris
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        5
      </td>
      <td>
        Brian Davis
      </td>
      <td>
        Patrick
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        4
      </td>
      <td>
        Guoqian Jiang
      </td>
      <td>
        Hua Min
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        3
      </td>
      <td>
        Tejas Dave
      </td>
      <td>
        Baris (already contacted)
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        3
      </td>
      <td>
        Ashwin Mathur
      </td>
      <td>
        Patrick
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        3
      </td>
      <td>
        Bilal Elahi
      </td>
      <td>
        Shantanu
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        3
      </td>
      <td>
        Margaret Haber
      </td>
      <td>
        Hua Min
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        2
      </td>
      <td>
        Sharon Gaheen
      </td>
      <td>
        Baris
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Later during our call Denise suggested she might be the one to take on those topics listed under Margaret Haber.
We did not go through each one of these. When Denise joined the call we moved on to Agenda item #2:

2.  Review script template, master list, naming conventions, etc... - do we need adjustments?
Thank you to RAs for feedback:
<ul>
  <li>
    We decide that the stakeholder field in the script template will be moved from pre-interview to post-interview, because it is in some cases hard to determine what stakeholder community the person belongs to before talking to them.
  </li>
  <li>
    Denise reminds RAs to keep in mind that we need to elicit WHY interviewees request a certain feature. We need to find out what their process is and what causes the problem. They might think they know the solution to their problem and request a certain feature, but it is essential for us to fully understand their goals, their work, and what they need to make sure we provide the best solution.
  </li>
  <li>
    note: we may want to think about recording whether the interviewee is a consumer or a producer.
  </li>
</ul>
Discussion between Margaret Haber and Denise Warzel. CDISC ist HIGH PRIORITY. A requirement analyst will pull out high level use cases. The RA and Denise will present the top priority use cases to Margaret in January to get confirmation that these are the top priorities.

There is a need to add these types of use cases to our questionnaire form. In the post-interview section. (see action items)
Margaret Haber&#39;s and Joel Saltz&#39;s requirements are based on different starting point than all others. We need to make a list of their high level use cases first.
We need a short descriptive narrative for each use case related to Joel Saltz&#39;s or Margaret Haber&#39;s requirements.
<h2 id="TeamMeetingNotesandAgenda12152009-ActionItems">
  Action Items
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Name Responsible
      </th>
      <th>
        Action Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Date Due
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea
      </td>
      <td>
        move stakeholder&#39;s row from pre-interview down to post-interview section
      </td>
      <td>
        Th 12/17
      </td>
      <td>
        done
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea
      </td>
      <td>
        add field in post interview section for high level use case summary - a short descriptive narrative
      </td>
      <td>
        Th 12/17
      </td>
      <td>
        done
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Denise
      </td>
      <td>
        set milestones for round 1 and round 2
      </td>
      <td>
        Th 12/17
      </td>
      <td>
        â€”
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea/Brian
      </td>
      <td>
        assign RA to contact Joel Saltz as soon as possible
      </td>
      <td>
        Th 12/17
      </td>
      <td>
        done - Patrick is assigned
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Bea/Brian
      </td>
      <td>
        assign RA to CDISC (Margaret Haber)
      </td>
      <td>
        Th 12/17
      </td>
      <td>
        done - Baris is assigned
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>