<h2 id="id-20200616BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
16 Jun 2020
<h2 id="id-20200616BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~beyersm" rel="nofollow">
      Beyers, Matthew (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    Anju, Paula, Shaying, Philip, Amy, Erika, Jeff, Christina, Dawn, Heather, Debbie, Toby, Allison
  </li>
  <li>
    Regrets: Elaine, Cheryl
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20200616BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Goals">
  Goals
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20200616BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Introductions
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Jeff
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Introduced new ex-officio member Heather Gardner
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Working Group Updates
      </td>
      <td>
        Jeff
      </td>
      <td>
        Imaging (Paula/Amy)
        <ul>
          <li>
            Working with Texas A&amp;M to curate 40 glioma cases.
          </li>
          <li>
            Need to define a formal process for linking to data files.  Need discussion about how to link and display images.  IDC in process of ingesting image sets for TCGA.  Paula will discuss with a couple of people and get back to Matt on setting up this meeting.
          </li>
        </ul>
        Discussed need for Program information for Knapp and Glioma studies.Clinical/Pathology standards (Debbie): no update.Genomics (Jeff): Goals: 1) finalize genomics best practice document - assigned to Dawn to report back by the next meeting.  Will get feedback from Will Hendricks. 2) Dockerized (Allison, Will) pipeline harmonized with EMR efforts out of Tufts.  Heather will contribute also.  Write 2-page report.  Include example pipelines (WDL-Terra and CWL-SBG).Immunology (Toby): nothing to report at this time.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Goals
      </td>
      <td>
        All
      </td>
      <td>
        Each working group should work on 1-2 sentences of goals so that the NCI can know what is being worked on.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20200616BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Have Group leads write up goals for each working group.
  </li>
  <li>
    Dawn/Shaying to provide finalized genomics best practice document.
  </li>
  <li>
    Allison/Will/Heather to write 2-page report on dockerized pipeline and examples.
  </li>
  <li>
    Paula to discuss about imaging process and get back to Matt
  </li>
</ul>