<h2 id="id-20200915BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
15 Sep 2020
<h2 id="id-20200915BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~beyersm" rel="nofollow">
      Beyers, Matthew (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    Amy, Paula, Toby, Cheryl, Dawn, Erika, Philip, Debbie, Christina, Anju
  </li>
  <li>
    Regrets: Jeff (conference), Shaying (teaching), Heather (meeting)
  </li>
  <li>
    Connie, Allison, Renee, Allen, Elaine
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20200915BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Agenda">
  Agenda
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Genomics WG: status on white paper and dockerized system.
  </li>
  <li>
    Imaging WG: status on gathering images and associated standardization guidelines.
  </li>
  <li>
    Clinical/Pathology WG: status on goals.  Do we want to revisit the Data collection guidelines and finalize?
  </li>
  <li>
    Immunology WG: status on goals.
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20200915BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Genomics WG Update
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Shaying: Genomic WG white paper:
        <ol>
          <li>
            My students have prepared the table summarizing the software tools for canine NGS analysis.  I am reviewing it now and will send the Table out next few days.
          </li>
          <li>
            I am still writing on the primary analysis and will try to get it finished soon.
          </li>
        </ol>
        Dawn:Difficulty determining which tools to use in white paper since everyone uses different tools.Dawn will coordinate with rest of WG to finalize white paper.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Imaging WG Update
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Have 29/81 subjects from Glioma working on curating.  Have not been able to get other sites yet - Amy will need to follow-up.  Paula will forward list of cases since Amy thinks it seems low.  Glioma H&amp;E images with Christina and working with Philip to get them labelled.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Clinical/Pathology WG Update
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Groundrules and guidelines being worked on by Philip based on on-boarding experience.  Should have them updated by next BPSC meeting.  Cheryl has provided bloodwork values and is working on histopathology with Amy. Cheryl/Debbie will write goals.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Immunology WG Update
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Nano CanineIO panel is standard - Cheryl will provide details to add to Groundrules and Guidelines. Cheryl/Debbie will write goals.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20200915BPSCMonthlyMeetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Matt to send out poll to see if we can move the meeting to 11:30.
  </li>
  <li>
    Dawn to work with Genomics WG to finalize white paper
  </li>
  <li>
    Amy/Paula to work on H&amp;E images and rest of MRIs
  </li>
  <li>
    Cheryl/Debbie to write goals for Clin/Path and Immuno WGs.
  </li>
  <li>
    Cheryl to send CanineIO panel details to Matt.
  </li>
</ul>