<h2 id="id-20210205Meetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
01 Feb 2021
<h2 id="id-20210205Meetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Todd, Connie, Toby, John, Debbie, Ralph
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20210205Meetingnotes-Goals">
  Goals
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20210205Meetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        SC Meeting minutes
      </td>
      <td>
        Ralph
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Toby did not see January minutes but does have December minutes
          </li>
          <li>
            Ralph hasn&#39;t circulated them yet
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Submitter Support
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Todd/Ralph
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Erika Berger may not have time in the near future
            <ul>
              <li>
                Also concern that this is outside of her best interests
              </li>
              <li>
                There are some scope concerns as well
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            May need to look at alternatives to Erika
          </li>
          <li>
            FNL staff could use an existing charge code
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        ICDC Site Update
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Todd
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Preview of SC meeting topics
          </li>
          <li>
            ICDC Use case prioritization process
          </li>
          <li>
            Having the priority discussion with the full SC is approved
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Outreach
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Anju/Connie
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Connie will update and send to John and Todd
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Peripheral Blood &#34;normal&#34; genome
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Ralph
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Normal reference genomes can show variance over time as different bones become more or less important
            <ul>
              <li>
                Does this occur in dogs?
              </li>
              <li>
                Debbie believes so, Elaine should know
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Probably needs to be considered when pulling together the reference genomes
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20210205Meetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Todd to look for Jan minutes - Contact Ralph if I can&#39;t find them.
  </li>
  <li>
    Todd to discuss with Amy/Ralph on availability for Erika or possible replacements
  </li>
  <li>
    Todd to check if honoraria can go directly to a staff memeber besides PI
  </li>
</ul>