<h2 id="id-20210720BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
20 Jul 2021
<h2 id="id-20210720BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~pihltd" rel="nofollow">
      Pihl, Todd (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    Dawn Duval
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~leblancak" rel="nofollow">
      Leblanc, Amy (NIH/NCI) [E]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    Cheryl London
  </li>
  <li>
    Heather Gardner
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~hechtt" rel="nofollow">
      Hecht, Toby (NIH/NCI) [E]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~jacobsp" rel="nofollow">
      Jacobs, Paula (NIH/NCI) [E]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    Shaying Zhao
  </li>
  <li>
    Jeff Trent
  </li>
  <li>
    Regrets: Elaine Ostrander, Erika Kim
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20210720BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Introductions
      </td>
      <td>
        Todd
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Introducing Gina Kuffel
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Committee Goals
      </td>
      <td>
        Todd
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Best Practices publication
            <ul>
              <li>
                Initial Outline on Box:
                <a href="https://nih.app.box.com/folder/137612017625" rel="nofollow">
                  https://nih.app.box.com/folder/137612017625
                </a>
              </li>
              <li>
                Elaine to potentially take the lead on this initiative
              </li>
              <li>
                A milestone driven outline with dates and assigned tasks is needed
              </li>
              <li>
                Set to begin work on this effort by mid August
              </li>
              <li>
                Target date for submission is October 1, 2021
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Variant filter file
            <ul>
              <li>
                Some of the filters are not well understood by the group
              </li>
              <li>
                A discussion is needed to identify overlap and differences in variant calling filter files being using by various groups
              </li>
              <li>
                Dependent on genome best practices for calling germ-line mutations
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Other
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Todd
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Next meeting: Cancel August 17th?  Following meeting is September 21st.
        <ul>
          <li>
            We will meet on August 17th
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20210720BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Minutes(NotVerbatim)">
  Minutes (Not Verbatim)
</h2>
JT- Happy to give Elaine a call to confirm she would like to take the lead on drafting the Best Practices publication come mid-AugustTH- Is this coming up with an outline or a draft or what is the expectation?TP- There is a completed paper that is available on Box that is meant to serve as the starting draft. As we discussed last time, we are going to generate an outline to define additions and order that is needed for the paper before it is ready for publication.PJ- The outline is a series of items that need to be added in order to amplify the paper.CL- The people that are involved in the existing white paper, should they be driving the process?JT- The goal is to put the people that have done something, it&#39;s not about authorship, it&#39;s more about motivating people to get this done. The discussion with Elaine was about giving an opportunity to obtain authorship.CL- We need a milestone driven outline with dates and assigned tasks. JT- We agreed to get together to create this come mid-August. CL- The white paper just needs to be structured in a way that adds content that everyone agrees needs to be added.JT- The advantage of this benefits those who actually put their time into this and will increase visibility.CL- What is the target date for submission?JT- October 1, 2021TP- Did we want to take a similar approach to the variant filter file? Who will be involved? Who will lead it? Right now everyone is using a different version of a variant calling filter file, the goal is to create a universal variant calling filter file.AL- Is there a way to come up with a unified reference genome? Can we decide which genome should be used?HG- Each group has their own vcf filter file. I suspect there to be overlap, but we should come together and discuss the differences.DD- It can be a bit of a moving target. We use a vcf file mostly based off the one Elaine has posted. Some of the filters are not well understood by the group.SZ- Curating a resource would be valuable in order to decipher between somatic and germ-line mutations. This is dependent on genome best practices on how to call germ-line mutations.
<h2 id="id-20210720BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~hechtt" rel="nofollow">
      Hecht, Toby (NIH/NCI) [E]
    </a>
    to share paper about canine reference genomes
  </li>
  <li>
    Jeff Trent to confirm that  Elaine is willing to take the lead on generating an outline for amplifying the white paper in preparation for publication.
  </li>
</ul>