<h2 id="id-20210615BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
15 Jun 2021
<h2 id="id-20210615BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Todd, Amy, Christina, Dawn, Paula, Shaying, Heather, Phil, Erika, Cheryl
  </li>
  <li>
    Regrets:Â  Jeff, Elaine
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20210615BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        ICDC Next Phase
      </td>
      <td>
        Todd
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            ICDC has 2 years left, time to start thinking about what&#39;s next
            <ul>
              <li>
                Will be discussed in more depth in the Steering Committee
              </li>
              <li>
                Possible goals?
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    ICDC hosting a reference genome(s)?
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    Other ground truth data?
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    Tool/analysis information?
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        White Paper
      </td>
      <td>
        All
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Initial Outline on Box:
            <a href="https://nih.app.box.com/folder/137612017625" rel="nofollow">
              https://nih.app.box.com/folder/137612017625
            </a>
          </li>
          <li>
            Goals?
          </li>
          <li>
            Schedule?
          </li>
          <li>
            Housing variant file on ICDC
            <ul>
              <li>
                Variant call file, filters, parameters to identify the variants
              </li>
              <li>
                Will 10,000 Dog project allow ICDC to host the file
              </li>
              <li>
                Dawn has an in-house panel as well (60-70 dogs)
              </li>
              <li>
                Shaying - 15TB genomic and sequence data that could be in ICDC
              </li>
              <li>
                SNPs for 10 pure breeds
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Amy - in the middle of a sequencing push on a collection of normal tissues
            <ul>
              <li>
                May need a discussion if these are useful
              </li>
              <li>
                Will be submitting normal tissue to ICDC
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Revisit at next BP meeting as worst case
            <ul>
              <li>
                Recirculate outline
              </li>
              <li>
                Try to schedule a meeting to organize paper
              </li>
              <li>
                HAVE A DEADLINE
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Variant call file
            <ul>
              <li>
                What was the issue with the ones available
              </li>
              <li>
                Heather - Have an in-house file housed at Broad
              </li>
              <li>
                Is there a way to merge all the dataset?
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    Also would need some curation
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>
                Establish a variant standards group?
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    Todd to start organizing
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        Other
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Todd
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Gina Kufel will start as ICDC TPM on June 21st
          </li>
          <li>
            July and August meetings?
            <ul>
              <li>
                July - Goal is paper workflow/outline
              </li>
              <li>
                August - No meeting
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20210615BestPracticesMeetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    Todd to organize a variant group, Include Greg
  </li>
</ul>