<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Date
      </th>
      <td>
        16 Dec 2022
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
      <td>
        ICDC Team
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="ICDCSprint29Retrospective-Retrospective">
  Retrospective
</h2>
<h3 id="ICDCSprint29Retrospective-Liked">
  Liked
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/smile.svg" alt="(smile)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything that went well in this sprint including shout out to others that went out of their way to help (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    answered a bunch of my questions regarding some of the finer details of implementing the interoperation microservice (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~millerer" rel="nofollow">
      Miller, Eric (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    ).
  </li>
  <li>
    Enjoyed team brainstorm process when new changes and possible opportunities for a different user experience were surfaced. Thanks to
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    and
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    for the dialogue and sharing of ideas and feedback as we reaccess the cart experience. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~stogsdillhh" rel="nofollow">
      Stogsdill, Hannah (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    The My Files cart redesigns are looking really good - if adopted, they will result in a very much more elegant cart experience (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Discovery of the new React Flow library looks like a big win in terms of allowing us to implement a big chunk of the new Navigator designs with relatively little pain (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    The new DMN graph component looks very cool! (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    ICDC funding has been approved to increase the scope of work to include Bento features and fully Bentofy ICDC so that features can be more seamlessly incorporated across projects (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Possible improvement on visibility and scalability of graph view component on DMN (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="ICDCSprint29Retrospective-Disliked/Lacked/NeedsImprovement">
  Disliked/Lacked/Needs Improvement
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/sad.svg" alt="(sad)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything that we could have done better in this sprint (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    Personally, I&#39;d like to see more of the pro-active information sharing so nicely exemplified by
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    taking the reins and showing us the new React Flow in our initial sprint planning. There is absolutely nothing to be gained from not getting technical challenges, implementation concerns and also positive findings out sooner rather than later, but plenty to lose. I&#39;d really like to hear more sooner from the engineering team and have the QA team poke holes in things. No emergency, but I think engagement within the team has tailed off a little (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Code based for existing Graph component could have been reviewed earlier on my part. But Very fortunate to find the library that matches closely to the design. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="ICDCSprint29Retrospective-Learned">
  Learned
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/lightbulb_on.svg" alt="(lightbulb)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything you learned about in this sprint (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    Learned more about IDC/TCIA data nodes and their respective APIs. Also became more familiar with node.js and GraphQL (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~millerer" rel="nofollow">
      Miller, Eric (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    ).
  </li>
  <li>
    We (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    and myself) have some work to do on better defining our expectations around featuring/sharing videos, articles, etc. via the News page (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    We may need to think through JBrowse opening in a new session so that user experience is intuitive as we can now see through the implementation on QA and as
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muskp2" rel="nofollow">
      Musk, Philip (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    has pointed out (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    More configuration, learning multiple libraries, improving on identifying potential library. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
Actions
<ul>
  <li>
    Better catalog/documentation of system changes, ie. a DevOps log
  </li>
  <li>
    Reschedule standup meetings
  </li>
</ul>