Agenda for 4/2/2009:
<ol>
  <li>
    Update from Qinyan on progress/roadblocks
  </li>
  <li>
    Review of Wiki
  </li>
  <li>
    Preparation for 4/14 IVI vocab meeting.
  </li>
  <li>
    Discuss Vasari feature spreadsheet conversion (Need to add additional fields?)
  </li>
</ol>
Discussion points:
<ol>
  <li>
    Vasari update
    <ol>
      <li>
        Qinyan has created a spreadsheet to suggest how the TJU elements could be mapped into AIM
        <ol>
          <li>
            Emailed Daniel Rubin in regards to whether the &#34;comments&#34; provided by TJU should be mapped to TextAnnotation or ImageAnnotation-Comment
          </li>
          <li>
            Emailed Adam Flanders about Feature1.Â  In some places it&#39;s scored with multiple numbers - does this mean the tumor spans multiple locations?
          </li>
          <li>
            Added in the names of the Features into Qinyan&#39;s spreadsheet
          </li>
          <li>
            John Freymann proposed setting up a meeting with TJU, UCLA, and relevant AIM/Radlex/VCDE people to review the feature list and help propose proper course of actions
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>
        Tony Pan suggested contacting UCLA about their input with regards to this since they&#39;re also doing a GBM project
      </li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Justin uploaded discussed documents to the wiki, posted meeting notes
  </li>
  <li>
    Discussed IVI vocab meeting
    <ol>
      <li>
        Suggested inviting Adam Flanders to join in case questions come up about the information he recorded
      </li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>
Action Items:
<ol>
  <li>
    Qinyan/Jennifer to find out more about RadLex API
  </li>
  <li>
    Qinyan/Jennifer to also investigate pulling permissible values via caDSR API
  </li>
  <li>
    John/Justin to contact Adam Flanders and other relevant people to attend 4/14 IVI vocab meeting
  </li>
</ol>