Document Information
Author:  Craig Stancl, Scott Bauer, Cory Endle  Email:
<a href="mailto:craig.stancl2@nih.gov" rel="nofollow">
  craig.stancl2@nih.gov
</a>
,
<a href="mailto:scott.bauer@nih.gov" rel="nofollow">
  scott.bauer@nih.gov
</a>
,   Team:  LexEVS  Contract:   16X237 Client:  NCI CBIIT  National Institutes of Heath  US Department of Health and Human Services
Contents of this Page
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Wednesday,November30th,2016" rel="nofollow">
      Wednesday, November 30th, 2016
    </a>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-UserGroupDiscussion" rel="nofollow">
          User Group Discussion
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-RESTfulAPIDiscussion" rel="nofollow">
          RESTful API Discussion
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Triplestore/RDFDiscussion" rel="nofollow">
          Triple store/RDF Discussion
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-EVSProjectGroupDiscussion(Duringregularcall-intime)" rel="nofollow">
          EVS Project Group Discussion (During regular call-in time)
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-LexEVSMappingDiscussion" rel="nofollow">
          LexEVS Mapping Discussion
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-LuceneDiscussion" rel="nofollow">
          Lucene Discussion
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Overflow/AdditionalTopics" rel="nofollow">
          Overflow/Additional Topics
        </a>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Thursday,December1st,2016" rel="nofollow">
      Thursday, December 1st, 2016
    </a>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-ValueSetmanagementandworkflow" rel="nofollow">
          Value Set management and workflow
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-ValueSetandMappingDatawithHierarchicalstructureDiscussion" rel="nofollow">
          Value Set and Mapping Data with Hierarchical structure Discussion
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-NCISystemsDiscussions" rel="nofollow">
          NCI Systems Discussions
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-FHIRandterminologyservices(CTS2)" rel="nofollow">
          FHIR and terminology services (CTS2)
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-OWLRestrictionsinLexGridModel" rel="nofollow">
          OWL Restrictions in LexGrid Model
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Overflow/AdditionalTopics.1" rel="nofollow">
          Overflow/Additional Topics
        </a>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Friday,December2nd,2016" rel="nofollow">
      Friday, December 2nd, 2016
    </a>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-LexEVSAdmin" rel="nofollow">
          LexEVS Admin
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-PrioritizationandDebrief" rel="nofollow">
          Prioritization and Debrief
        </a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="#id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-PrioritizationandDebrief(Continuedifneeded)" rel="nofollow">
          Prioritization and Debrief (Continued if needed)
        </a>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
The purpose of this document is to document the technical face to face meeting details between the NCI and the LexEVS Team.
<h1 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-2016November/DecemberFace-to-FaceMeetingNotes">
  2016 November/December Face-to-Face Meeting Notes
</h1>
<h2 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Wednesday,November30th,2016">
  Wednesday, November 30th, 2016
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        9:00 AM - 10:00 AM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        4W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-UserGroupDiscussion">
          User Group Discussion
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Team to share how they are using LexEVS and additional usage requirements they may have.
          </li>
          <li>
            What components of LexEVS do you currently use?
            <ul>
              <li>
                LexEVS API
              </li>
              <li>
                LexEVS Remote API
              </li>
              <li>
                CTS2 RESTful services
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Are there LexEVS services that you would like to use, but they don&#39;t meet your requirements?
          </li>
          <li>
            Are there any other road blocks preventing you from using LexEVS?
          </li>
          <li>
            What version of LexEVS are you currently using?
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        CTRP, caDSR, GDC
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:  Larry, Jason, Kim, Craig, Scott, Cory, John, Liz, Sima, Rui, Natalia, Tracy, Sana, Tin, GilbertoDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    caDSR Team represented by Sima, Natalia, Vikram
  </li>
  <li>
    caDSR Applications that use EVS
    <ul>
      <li>
        Sentinel - Alerts for concepts, job that does concept clean up (compares concepts)
      </li>
      <li>
        Curation tooling - links to concepts, and search results.
      </li>
      <li>
        CDE Browser - Concepts used from search results.
      </li>
      <li>
        Semantic integration workbench - concepts used from search results
      </li>
      <li>
        CDEs
        <ul>
          <li>
            Utilize the NCIT, NCI meta,
          </li>
          <li>
            Look into NCIT - will use the concept to describe the CDE.
          </li>
          <li>
            Organizing concepts to build CDE terminology.
          </li>
          <li>
            CDEs are used for forms (permissible values on forms)
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Tooling hasn&#39;t changed or been replaced.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Currently use JARS and put in /lib
      </li>
      <li>
        Using Remote API today.
      </li>
      <li>
        Recently removed EJB
      </li>
      <li>
        Need to consider architecture in the future.
      </li>
      <li>
        MDR is planning to architect a solution moving forward.
      </li>
      <li>
        Currently searches are restricted to preferred terms.
        <ul>
          <li>
            Building data element - definitional information, preferred name
          </li>
          <li>
            Existing CDE - pull back perferred name.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Current Tooling Issues
    <ul>
      <li>
        Need to have a data load completed to PROD.
      </li>
      <li>
        Confirmed data load and ready once things move to production.
      </li>
      <li>
        New LexEVS Jars will be included in next release.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Remote API Architecture
    <ul>
      <li>
        Issues
        <ul>
          <li>
            Replacement of JARS
          </li>
          <li>
            Serialization of objects.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Proposed Architecture?
    <ul>
      <li>
        REST-ful API
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Identify current JAVA API usage by caDSR
    <ul>
      <li>
        EVS team to provide feedback as to how to do things better.
      </li>
      <li>
        EVS team to ensure that if REST-ful API is created, functionality to be prioritized.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        10:00 AM - 11:00 AM
      </td>
      <td>
        4W030
      </td>
      <td>
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-RESTfulAPIDiscussion">
          RESTful API Discussion
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Discuss requirements for continued development of REST services. This will include both CTS2 and separate REST-ful API.
          </li>
          <li>
            Browser: Discuss requirements for remote API and CTS2 REST-ful API.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees: Larry, Jason, Kim, Craig, Scott, Cory, John, Liz, Sima, Rui, Natalia, Tracy, Sana, Tin, Gilberto, JacobDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Browser use cases reviewed.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Additional cases
        <ul>
          <li>
            History - the browser currently uses.
          </li>
          <li>
            Security - for Medra or other licensed vocabularies.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        May be able to use CTS2 APIs, but may need to have separate REST-ful services for customized/specialized content.
      </li>
      <li>
        Current browser wouldn&#39;t use REST services.
      </li>
      <li>
        Unknown coverage for REST possibilities.  So additional investigation required.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Previous F2F considerations.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Custom Lucene may need to be provided for clinical trials.
      </li>
      <li>
        Group Value Sets - may be useful.
      </li>
      <li>
        Restrict to Properties - need to better understand this usecase.
      </li>
      <li>
        History - suggested by the CTRP but has some requirements in scope of the Browser.
      </li>
      <li>
        Graph and Association
        <ul>
          <li>
            No need from caDSR
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Additional requirements
    <ul>
      <li>
        Bulk Download
        <ul>
          <li>
            ability to download full or part of a complete terminology.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Align rest calls to support Moonshot API services.
  </li>
  <li>
    Make others aware services are available.
  </li>
  <li>
    Tracy suggested to look at Data.gov
  </li>
  <li>
    Browser team not going to use REST at this time
  </li>
  <li>
    caDSR not going to use REST at this time.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Identify Moonshot Clinical Trial API services to be supported by REST services.
  </li>
  <li>
    Identify ways to promote REST services.
  </li>
  <li>
    Identify possibilities of participating in Data.gov
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        11:00 AM - 12:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        4W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Triplestore/RDFDiscussion">
          Triple store/RDF Discussion
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Discuss what triple stores would be used for in parallel and in conjunction with LexEVS
          </li>
          <li>
            Text searching
          </li>
          <li>
            NCBO SPARQL white paper and it&#39;s implications
          </li>
          <li>
            Searching on Roles (Gilberto, Kim)
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:Discussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    There is a pilot ongoing to review triple stores
    <ul>
      <li>
        selected 3 triple stores (StarDog, Allegrograph (
        <a href="http://allegrograph.com/" rel="nofollow">
          http://allegrograph.com/
        </a>
        ), Viritouso) and have been working for the past 6 months
      </li>
      <li>
        evaluations covering restricting operations, loading data, performance testing, examine security (secured and anonymous access via proxies)
      </li>
      <li>
        nature of queries haven&#39;t been as representative of what is needed for production.
      </li>
      <li>
        more focus on real use queries.
      </li>
      <li>
        operations - hosting model not supported by CBIIT - so no support.  (ie, patching support not provided)
      </li>
      <li>
        all can be queried with standard SPARQL
      </li>
      <li>
        will still want REST services available to the end users.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Transition to SPAQRL gives raw access to the data (unlike API)
    <ul>
      <li>
        However, you need to understand the data - and this could differ from endpoint to endpoint.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    What do TripleStores provide - that differ (better than) LexEVS
    <ul>
      <li>
        Representation of Hierarchy
      </li>
      <li>
        Level of expressivity
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    3 use cases for triplestore evaluation:
    <ul>
      <li>
        Expressivity (reasoning support)
      </li>
      <li>
        Linked open data
        <ul>
          <li>
            use vocabulary as a &#34;glue&#34; between different data repositories.  Ability to &#34;join&#34; distributed repositories.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        Closer integration of vocabulary and meta data (part of the MDR).
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Report writer now uses the triple store
    <ul>
      <li>
        Loading of Value sets take much less time
      </li>
      <li>
        Access of Value Sets is better, but not hugely different.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Need to determine where Triple Store is better and where LexEVS is better.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Investigate where Triple Store usage may augment LexEVS.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        1:00 PM - 2:00 PM
      </td>
      <td>
        5E030
      </td>
      <td>
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-EVSProjectGroupDiscussion(Duringregularcall-intime)">
          EVS Project Group Discussion (During regular call-in time)
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            User/content priorities for value set, mapping, and other services.
          </li>
          <li>
            Specialized search and other capabilities for complex chemical names and genetic names.
          </li>
          <li>
            Current capabilities and browser implementation
          </li>
          <li>
            Possible expert system extension
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        EVS project meeting
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:  Larry, Kim, Craig, Scott, Cory, John, Liz, Gilberto, Lori, Tin, Teri, Sharon, Sana, Nick, Nels, Margaret, George, Brenda, Abigail, Erin, JoanneDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Value Sets
    <ul>
      <li>
        Would like LexEVS to support production of value sets with more rich structure. (to more efficiently assemble this deliverable)
      </li>
      <li>
        100K downloads from FTP site.  Fewer users use the browser to download the value sets.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Mapping
    <ul>
      <li>
        On a mapping page, you can download an excel or cvs file.
      </li>
      <li>
        ie, chebi has mapping.
      </li>
      <li>
        For GDC - ICD9 or 10 coding - to be able to use NCIT coding, there needs to be way to translate between ICD9 and NCIT codes.  There currently isn&#39;t a good way to do that today.
        <ul>
          <li>
            ie ICD9 - Brest cancer - corresponds to ABC in NCIT
          </li>
          <li>
            Determine how such a map could be published (browser and LexEVS)
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Other Services
    <ul>
      <li>
        IUPAC - there are 2 flavors to be considered - but can be managed.
      </li>
      <li>
        HUGO - the slash and hyphens have been problematic, but have been mostly resolved in the NCI Browser.
      </li>
      <li>
        Review of 4 identified searching issues (differences between results in LexEVS and Protege).
      </li>
      <li>
        NGram tokenizers may provide solution if we implement an Expert System.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Identify additional mapping requirements from the EVS Project group.
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate the use of the expert system solution to support specialized search capabilities for complex chemical and genetic names.
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate the usage of NGrams in Lucene to support specialized search.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        2:00 PM - 3:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        5E030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-LexEVSMappingDiscussion">
          LexEVS Mapping Discussion
        </h3>
        Determine requirements and propose solution for mapping.
        <ul>
          <li>
            User requirement: One terminology to many terminologies mapping.
          </li>
          <li>
            Other topics:  Current, conditional, external relationships
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:  Larry, Kim, Craig, Scott, Cory, John, Liz, Gilberto, TracyDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Use case provided by external LexEVS user.
  </li>
  <li>
    one to many (one terminology to many) is currently not a priority.
  </li>
  <li>
    There may have been time when loading maps from UMLS, but not sure why it wasn&#39;t completed.  Brian may have more information.
  </li>
  <li>
    Ability to capture synonymous (non-) - Query API, Loader.  Would want a use case to specifically describe this mapping.
  </li>
  <li>
    Consider loading MRMAP and review how it is loaded.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Investigate the MRMAP load and determine why that work wasn&#39;t completed.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        3:00 PM - 4:30 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        5E030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-LuceneDiscussion">
          Lucene Discussion
        </h3>
        Propose additional features of Lucene to be used within LexEVS.
        <ul>
          <li>
            Discuss specialized search use cases.
          </li>
          <li>
            Possible Lucene enhancements for coding scheme categorizations, auto complete aids, Lucene services.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees: Larry, Kim, Craig, Scott, Cory, John, Liz, Gilberto, TracyDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Facets - ability to perform categorical search
    <ul>
      <li>
        Coding Scheme Types
      </li>
      <li>
        Value Set Categories
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Auto complete
    <ul>
      <li>
        Interest for the browser and caDSR
      </li>
      <li>
        concerns about the results being overwhelming
      </li>
      <li>
        might be more useful if combined with facets - i.e. search cancers with facets of neoplasms
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Elastic Search
    <ul>
      <li>
        There are still many custom analyzers
      </li>
      <li>
        If possible to make search more portable - across LexEVS and TripleStore - may want to look at this.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Prefer to have a single interface - instead of having the user decide if they use LexEVS or TripleStore.
  </li>
  <li>
    SOLR vs Elastic Search
    <ul>
      <li>
        SOLR documents more flat
      </li>
      <li>
        Elastic Search document more complex.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Search down NeoPlasms and then stop at a certain level.  There is no mechanism to capture that.  Similar cases for drug searches.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="http://www.immport.org/" rel="nofollow">
      http://www.immport.org/
    </a>
    <ul>
      <li>
        John demoed - this uses facets and auto complete (based on 3 chars or more and typing speed).
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to use Lucene Facets and identify where it could be used.
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to design a usable auto complete and where it could be used.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Resources
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        4:30 PM - 5:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        5E030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Overflow/AdditionalTopics">
          Overflow/Additional Topics
        </h3>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:Discussion Points:Decision Points:
<h2 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Thursday,December1st,2016">
  Thursday, December 1st, 2016
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        9:00 AM - 11:00 AM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        3W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-ValueSetmanagementandworkflow">
          Value Set management and workflow
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Discuss requirements for value set version management and workflow management and supporting technology.
          </li>
          <li>
            Rob to give a demo of their current workflow and the scripts they use.
          </li>
          <li>
            Discuss latest issues on PROD.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Rob, Tracy
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        11:00 AM - 12:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        3W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-ValueSetandMappingDatawithHierarchicalstructureDiscussion">
          Value Set and Mapping Data with Hierarchical structure Discussion
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Determine requirements and propose options to hierarchical structure and mapping.
          </li>
          <li>
            Discuss how VS could retain their multiple hierarchical structure that it came from.
          </li>
          <li>
            Discuss what changes would be needed to CTS2 for this.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
 Attendees:  Jason, Gilberto, Rob, Tracy, Scott, Cory, Craig, Tin, Larry, Kim, Sana, LizDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Properties in Thesaurus that support the browsers
    <ul>
      <li>
        Subsets in Thesaurus (Protege)
        <ul>
          <li>
            Publish_Value_Set
          </li>
          <li>
            Term_Browser_Value_Set_Description
          </li>
          <li>
            Value_Set_Location - where browser fetches the report from (ftp location and path within evs, and filename, BNF)
          </li>
          <li>
            TVS_Location - Terminology Value Set OWL file - hierarchy and components
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        Properties are scrubbed before loading into LexEVS - these are private/internal properties.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Baseline - A diff is done on the value sets from month to month.  Triggers update load procedures monthly.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Load, Remove and Resolve scripts are generated for changes
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    OWL file provides information about where the value set lives in the hierarchy.
  </li>
  <li>
    NCI Thesaurus and TVS  (provides structure to value sets)  - used by the browser
  </li>
  <li>
    Process was created to provide structure/hierarchy to value sets
  </li>
  <li>
    Value Set loads - 700 coding schemes - loaded in 24 hours
  </li>
  <li>
    If value set resolution is performed against a new version of the code system, does LexEVS handle the versions?
  </li>
  <li>
    Process currently isn&#39;t limited to NCIT.
  </li>
  <li>
    Script created to create a txt file that views hierarchy of concepts on value set.
  </li>
  <li>
    value set downloads are ~10k a month and used across agencies by diverse set of consumers.
  </li>
  <li>
    curation and delivery processes are driven by the users and consumers.
  </li>
  <li>
    EVS editors work directly with CDISC and other groups.
  </li>
  <li>
    CDISC and FDA have different formats and standards
  </li>
  <li>
    Resolved value sets as coding schemes - done that way for performance.
  </li>
  <li>
    Process can be error prone for the EVS Editors.  The editors need to do specific things to drive Browser.
  </li>
  <li>
    Hierarchy (value set groupings)
    <ul>
      <li>
        TVS_CDISC provides information for the browser to display the value set hierarchy
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<img height="250" src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/download/attachments/embedded-page/LexEVS/2016.12%20Technical%20Face-To-Face%20Meeting%20Notes/image2016-12-1%2011:9:32.png?api=v2">
<ul>
  <li>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Possibly add hierarch to the NCIT to replace the complexity today.
        <ul>
          <li>
            hierarchy  (value set groupings) could be captured in lucene index (using Lucene Facets).
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    Hierarchal representation in value set
    <ul>
      <li>
        A coding scheme with custom hierarchy
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<img height="250" src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/download/attachments/embedded-page/LexEVS/2016.12%20Technical%20Face-To-Face%20Meeting%20Notes/image2016-12-1%2011:27:52.png?api=v2">
<ul>
  <li>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Neoplasm core is a starting point for coding neoplasms.  It is a starting point which then allows to branch out.
      </li>
      <li>
        Could extend the current implementation of resolved value sets so that that coding scheme would provide hierarchy. This is very much like a vocabulary.
      </li>
      <li>
        Could Provide &#34;Hierarchal Value Sets&#34;
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<img height="250" src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/download/attachments/embedded-page/LexEVS/2016.12%20Technical%20Face-To-Face%20Meeting%20Notes/image2016-12-1%2011:38:24.png?api=v2">
<ul>
  <li>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Browser could provide another tab &#34;Hierarchal Value Sets&#34; that would show the coding schemes that are the resolved hierarchal value sets.
          </li>
          <li>
            This might require an different value set loader or an extension to it.
          </li>
          <li>
            It could be complicated if the hierarchal value set hierarchy doesn&#39;t  match the original coding scheme hierarchy.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        CTS2 representation would need to be extended to support the idea of a Hierarchical Value Set.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    Considerations for investigation
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Investigate ability to be able to determine if Resolved VS coding scheme has changed.
      </li>
      <li>
        Investigate ability to be able to determine if Value Set Definition has changed.
      </li>
      <li>
        Investigate ability to update as needed (not have to load all 700 at the same time).
      </li>
      <li>
        Investigate ability to capture value set groupings in lucene index (using Lucene Facets and the NCIT).
      </li>
      <li>
        Investigate ability to capture &#34;Hierarchal Value Sets&#34; as coding schemes with hierarchy.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to be able to determine if Resolved VS coding scheme has changed.
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to be able to determine if Value Set Definition has changed.
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to update as needed (not have to load all 700 at the same time).
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to capture value set groupings in lucene index (using Lucene Facets and the NCIT).
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to capture &#34;Hierarchal Value Sets&#34; as coding schemes with hierarchy.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        1:00 PM - 3:30 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        3W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-NCISystemsDiscussions">
          NCI Systems Discussions
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Nexus Deployment Discussion
            <ul>
              <li>
                Current status of LexEVS artifacts on NCI Nexus server
              </li>
              <li>
                Discuss current technical challenges.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            CI and Docker Status/Roadmap
            <ul>
              <li>
                Discuss the current status of the Docker scripts used to build/test LexEVS components.
              </li>
              <li>
                Discuss NCI&#39;s current status and future plans to use Docker.
              </li>
              <li>
                Discuss security challenges associated with NCI&#39;s environment and Docker.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Discuss a separate DEV environment for CI server deployment
          </li>
          <li>
            Tech Stack Upgrades
            <ul>
              <li>
                Discuss DB upgrade:
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    MySQL 5.6 vs. MariaDB (10.1 Supported 2017.01)
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>
                Discuss CentOS 7 upgrade
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Tier Deployment testing responsibilities
            <ul>
              <li>
                Mayo development team responsibilities
              </li>
              <li>
                NCI development team responsibilities
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Sara, Shireesha, Phil  Jacob, Yeon (Systems Team)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:  Larry, Sherri, Rob, Tracy, Jacob, Sarah, Scott, Cory, Craig, Kwan, Yeon, Sherri, Tin, Sana, Shireseha, JasonDiscussion Points:Nexus Server Configuration
<ul>
  <li>
    Testing on DEV tier - config of security permissions
  </li>
  <li>
    Manual publishing until configured
  </li>
  <li>
    CTS2 - Maven build was the simplest case, so that&#39;s the focus.
  </li>
  <li>
    ANT publishing not currently available.  Will need to look at public and private key possibilities.  Sara&#39;s team should be able to support. (LexEVS requires ANT build).
  </li>
</ul>
Tech Stack Updates
<ul>
  <li>
    DB
    <ul>
      <li>
        Currently at 5.5
      </li>
      <li>
        Tech stack is moving to 5.6 and migration has started.
      </li>
      <li>
        Preliminary tests show that we can support 5.6.
      </li>
      <li>
        5.6.33 is the current version.  Yeon can update each tier for EVS team.
      </li>
      <li>
        No plan for 5.7, but MarieDB (in 6 months to year)
      </li>
      <li>
        Need to move to 5.6 as soon as we can.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    CentOS 7
    <ul>
      <li>
        LexEVS is ready to upgrade to CentOS 7
      </li>
      <li>
        CentOS 7 is available.
      </li>
      <li>
        Blade servers would need to be ordered or current blades would need to be re-imaged.
      </li>
      <li>
        May be able to shuffle the upgrade and swap servers so it moves up.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Java 1.8
    <ul>
      <li>
        LexEVS is ready with 1.8
      </li>
      <li>
        Waiting on other tooling to support 1.8
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
Dev Environment
<ul>
  <li>
    Set up secondary Dev instance for Jenkins and application servers.
  </li>
  <li>
    Need to consider what database connection is needed.
  </li>
  <li>
    Suggested - set up a VM for this Dev
  </li>
  <li>
    Can submit tickets to Jacob to get this started.
  </li>
</ul>
Docker and CI Discussion
<ul>
  <li>
    Overview of Mayo usage and configuration.
    <ul>
      <li>
        NCI uses Jenkins 2.19
      </li>
      <li>
        Docker differences between what NCI has and Mac version.
      </li>
      <li>
        Would require move from Ubuntu.
      </li>
      <li>
        Image repository not ready, testing Nexus 3.x for Docker Image Storage.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    NCI can support Docker configuration.
  </li>
  <li>
    Need to negotiate timelines.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Plan to migrate to 5.6.33 as soon as possible.
  </li>
  <li>
    Plan to migrate to CentOS7 (work with Jacob).
  </li>
  <li>
    Plan configuration of DEV instance (work with Jacob).
  </li>
  <li>
    Plan to further investigate Docker configuration.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        3:30 PM - 4:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        3W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-FHIRandterminologyservices(CTS2)">
          FHIR and terminology services (CTS2)
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Harold to provide update on CTS2 and FHIR.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Harold
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees: Tin, Jason, Rob, Tracy, Scott, Craig, Cory, Larry, Sherri, Harold, GilbertoDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Harold noted that the OMG process stalled by no further participation by Mayo.
  </li>
  <li>
    Remaining issues:
    <ul>
      <li>
        SOAP WSDL
      </li>
      <li>
        Miscellaneous issues
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Additional Features:
    <ul>
      <li>
        Columnar Format
      </li>
      <li>
        Cannonical RDF
      </li>
      <li>
        SNOMED CT implementation guide
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    FHIR and CTS2 are similar in that both are complex but much is not required - only use what you need.
  </li>
  <li>
    Clinical Research and Biomedical informatics groups are taking note of FHIR and beginning participation in FHIR.
  </li>
  <li>
    FHIR Terminology - possible integration of CTS2 services.
  </li>
  <li>
    Grahm Grieve (HL7 FHIR) is in support of CTS2 services for FHIR.
  </li>
  <li>
    Current Planning
    <ul>
      <li>
        Plan on implementing entity description in native FHIR to demonstrate the differences and begin discussing with the FHIR community.
      </li>
      <li>
        Review FHIR terminology and CTS2 terminology to describe overlap and gaps.  A paper will be written and published.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Other project - CIMI HSP - Determined that CTS2 wasn&#39;t a candidate for services.
  </li>
  <li>
    FHIR does offer:
    <ul>
      <li>
        Provides extensibility
      </li>
      <li>
        Not to be fully implemented.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    HL7 and OMG HSSP process was not successful in that the standard wasn&#39;t successfully integrated back to HL7.
  </li>
  <li>
    A better model would have been what FHIR is doing within HL7 - collaborative within HL7.
  </li>
  <li>
    Harold to be at the January HL7 meeting to listen in on the FHIR sessions.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        4:00 PM - 5:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        3W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-OWLRestrictionsinLexGridModel">
          OWL Restrictions in LexGrid Model
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Discuss approach and propose additional features.
          </li>
          <li>
            Determine if there are LexEVS model changes needed.
          </li>
          <li>
            Loader considerations.
          </li>
          <li>
            Additional problems and solutions
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:  Larry, Sherri, Jason, Rob, Tracy, Cory, Scott, Craig, Harold, Gilberto, KimDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Much of OWL2 is similar to OWL1.
  </li>
  <li>
    OWL2 includes property chains, but thy aren&#39;t being used.
  </li>
  <li>
    The entire semantic meaning in LexEVS isn&#39;t required for OWL2.  For example, reasoners would use OWL2 source - not out of a terminology server.
  </li>
  <li>
    There is no requirement to include additional OWL2 representation in LexEVS.  Instead, use triple store and expand RESTful services.
  </li>
  <li>
    Current OWL2 issues have been resolved.
  </li>
  <li>
    Need to revisit the OBO JIRA item - and close it.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    No additional OWL2 representation needed in LexEVS.
  </li>
  <li>
    Review OBO JIRA issue and resolve.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        5:00 PM - 5:30 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        3W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Overflow/AdditionalTopics.1">
          Overflow/Additional Topics
        </h3>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:   Larry, Sherri, Jason, Rob, Tracy, Cory, Scott, Craig, Harold, Gilberto, KimDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Browser issue - search issue when value sets don&#39;t return content.
  </li>
  <li>
    Noted that QA could be done in Protege before publishing
  </li>
  <li>
    Value Set Loader should not load a value set with no content.
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Implement fix for Value Set Loader to not load value set with no content.
    <a href="https://tracker.nci.nih.gov/browse/LEXEVS-2510" rel="nofollow">
      LEXEVS-2510
    </a>
    -
    Getting issue details...
    STATUS
  </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-Friday,December2nd,2016">
  Friday, December 2nd, 2016
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        9:00 AM - 10:00 AM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        1W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-LexEVSAdmin">
          LexEVS Admin
        </h3>
        Discuss current and future requirements.
        <ul>
          <li>
            GUI
            <ul>
              <li>
                Consider a web based tool.  A simple way to look at the data.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Command Line loader requirements
          </li>
          <li>
            Other considerations
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:  Larry, Rob, Tracy, Cory, Craig, Scott, TinDiscussion Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Ability to look at data in a graphical way would be important.
  </li>
  <li>
    Command Line usage - List Schemes - can return 700+, so prefer to use the UI.
  </li>
  <li>
    Usage of the UI for troubleshooting to review the data in the database.
  </li>
  <li>
    Minimal ability to look at data would be preferred (fully graphical is not required)
  </li>
  <li>
    Administrative tasks not required in the GUI (only in the cmd line tooling)
  </li>
  <li>
    Ability to load metadata at the same time as the load.
  </li>
  <li>
    Web based tool.
  </li>
  <li>
    We need to replace based on functionality used by Browser
    <ul>
      <li>
        graphical hierarchy representation (tree extension?)
      </li>
      <li>
        Optimal or best practice as an alternative
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    providing code snippets for end users as options
  </li>
  <li>
    Secure any admin code (Loading, changing code systems) on a web based gui is a concern
  </li>
  <li>
    Could be potentially be used as a browser for technical users on an NCI Production server (Discussed)
  </li>
  <li>
    There is a request for admin ability for editing the preferences and manifest.
  </li>
  <li>
    Currently, there is no way to view what metadata is loaded.
  </li>
  <li>
    Investigate ability to combine data from the metadata and manifest files into one file.
    <ul>
      <li>
        This would make administration/loading easier.
      </li>
      <li>
        Post load options may be an issue.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    History loader creates multiple errors when loading - there is an existing JIRA item.
    <ul>
      <li>
        May be caused by DB timeout.
      </li>
      <li>
        Investigate what is causing.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
     LG xml Loader is used to load maps.  However, it doesn&#39;t take in account of the type of maps (it could).  Not sure the rankings can be applied.
    <ul>
      <li>
        No existing issues, but may find some loading additional maps
      </li>
      <li>
        SY relationships and Ranking are provided.
      </li>
      <li>
        Monthly changes are applied.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    GUI Performance during x-forwarding noted by Rob.
  </li>
  <li>
    File system preferences - lock?
  </li>
  <li>
    UI is good for Tagging to Production
  </li>
  <li>
    UI is good for Removing a Coding Scheme
  </li>
  <li>
    Listing Schemes in CMD - ListSchemes.sh - formatting is limited to column width.
    <ul>
      <li>
        <img height="250" src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/download/attachments/embedded-page/LexEVS/2016.12%20Technical%20Face-To-Face%20Meeting%20Notes/image2016-12-2%209:58:57.png?api=v2">
      </li>
      <li>
        Default, do not show entire width.
      </li>
      <li>
        Minimailly add 10 chars to URL
      </li>
      <li>
        Minimally add 5 chars to Versions
      </li>
      <li>
        Add option to see full length&#39;s of all fields.
      </li>
      <li>
        Add option to see minimal information.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
 Decision Points:
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        10:00 AM - 12:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        1W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-PrioritizationandDebrief">
          Prioritization and Debrief
        </h3>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Discuss OWL2, RRF, LexEVS, CTS2, Browser, and all previous topics
            <ul>
              <li>
                Discuss future architecture
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Determine next steps/road map and priorities
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees: Kumar, Larry, Jason, Sherri, Rob, Tracy, Cory, Scott, CraigDiscussion Points:Architecture
<ul>
  <li>
    Future considerations.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Smaller services -
        <ul>
          <li>
            For example, Coding List listing service as a separate service.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        Concerns around ability to deploy up the tiers
        <ul>
          <li>
            Current requirements will prohibit how quickly services can be exposed.
          </li>
          <li>
            Concerns about tech stack upgrades across services.  Micro Services may or may not be impacted by upgrades (some or all).
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        If addressed well, we can get rid of silos and duplication.
      </li>
      <li>
        Resources are a concern,
        <ul>
          <li>
            Containers, JETTY, and how to balance.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        Security
        <ul>
          <li>
            Scanning will take nearly as long as the large service.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        Instead of re-architecting all, focus on new and additional functionality (along side existing LexEVS)
      </li>
      <li>
        No longer would need clients to include jars, dependencies.
      </li>
      <li></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:
<ul>
  <li>
    Investigate services architecture to support new and additional functionality.
  </li>
</ul>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th colspan="1">
        Location
      </th>
      <th>
        Topics
      </th>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1">
        1:00 PM - 2:00 PM
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        1W030
      </td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <h3 id="id-2016.12TechnicalFaceToFaceMeetingNotes-PrioritizationandDebrief(Continuedifneeded)">
          Prioritization and Debrief (Continued if needed)
        </h3>
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
Attendees:Discussion Points:Strategic direction - RESTful services
<ul>
  <li>
    Moving to micro architecture in new areas in functionality for LexEVS
  </li>
  <li>
    Integrated REST services across LexEVS, Triple Store, Clinical Trials (Integrated REST Services)
  </li>
  <li>
    Future MDR redesign effort - areas of service support of terminologies.
  </li>
  <li>
    Future CTRP support
  </li>
</ul>
Decision Points:   