<h2 id="id-20181218Meetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
18 Dec 2018
<h2 id="id-20181218Meetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~safrant" rel="nofollow">
      Safran, Tracy (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20181218Meetingnotes-Goals">
  Goals
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20181218Meetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Mapping meeting
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Stephanie Meta mapping ~10
            <ul>
              <li>
                Scott is interested in talking about meta mapping tool.
              </li>
              <li>
                Tool will return matches to input text or phrases - more of a coding tool than ontology-ontology mapping
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Kim mapping tool ~10-15
            <ul>
              <li>
                Based on EVSRestAPI.
              </li>
              <li>
                Input terms and vocab to be matched
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Mayo - Corey pulling together from value set workbench ~10-15
            <ul>
              <li>
                <a href="https://github.com/valuesetworkbench" rel="nofollow">
                  https://github.com/valuesetworkbench
                </a>
              </li>
              <li>
                Consists of a number of microservices running together
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Tracy meta co-location &lt;5
            <ul>
              <li>
                LexEVS based
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Terry will demo OWLCompare ~5
            <ul>
              <li>
                owlapi based - direct against OWL file
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Lori - providing requirements
          </li>
        </ul>
        Jason will be hosting the meeting on Thursday.Lyubov and Lori on requirementsTerryTracyStephMayoKim
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Technical debt - especially around security and Java 9(11?).Â  Java 11 Requires implementation of modularity and encapsulation.Browser would need to be updated along with LexEVS.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20181218Meetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>