<h2 id="id-20211027Meetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
27 Oct 2021
<h2 id="id-20211027Meetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~safrant" rel="nofollow">
      Safran, Tracy (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20211027Meetingnotes-Goals">
  Goals
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20211027Meetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Server Migration
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Heard nothing new
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Wiki migration
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Heard nothing new
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Term browser release
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        On Stage?
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Metrics Dashboard
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Several issues being dealt with
            <ul>
              <li>
                Can&#39;t touch Prod logs until ATO is complete
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    Should have one solution for both on-prem and cloud
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>
                Many issues require actions by Systems or Cloud teams
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Log rotation - to be addressed with Systems and Ops
            <ul>
              <li>
                There no overriding rule with on-prem and cloud logs having different archive procedures
              </li>
              <li>
                Different formats for log access.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Last major technical issue is measure duration of access.
            <ul>
              <li>
                Looking at taking info from Google and feeding it into Sumo
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    How would the credentialing work for this?
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    Tracy will double check how it is done
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Mapping Tool
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Prototype ready that does what the compare tool did.
          </li>
          <li>
            Met with editors today
            <ul>
              <li>
                Some dissension on what could and should be done
              </li>
              <li>
                Semantic types and properties should be output not input - possibly
              </li>
              <li>
                Need to be strict in communications including Lori
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Some background mapping information provided
          </li>
          <li>
            A few business rule implementations to be worked upon
          </li>
          <li>
            Some output formatting to be wrapped up
          </li>
          <li>
            Upload of text files for compare
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20211027Meetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>