<h2 id="id-20210901Meetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
01 Sep 2021
<h2 id="id-20210901Meetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~safrant" rel="nofollow">
      Safran, Tracy (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20210901Meetingnotes-Goals">
  Goals
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20210901Meetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Java 11
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Briefly brought up last meeting. Any needed followup?
            <ul>
              <li>
                Put in a JIRA item for LexEVS. Feature request/Improvement - low
              </li>
              <li>
                Already one in for the browsers
              </li>
              <li>
                Already one if for Rest stack
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Java 8 end of premier support March 2022
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Meta on EVSRest
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Nothing new - ongoing
        <ul>
          <li>
            Issues - show source hierarchy
            <ul>
              <li>
                show source only synonyms
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Metrics Dashboard
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Sumo logic
            <ul>
              <li>
                still working on domain information
              </li>
              <li>
                not happy with current options
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Lyubov&#39;s feedback
            <ul>
              <li>
                Drop down for sources to report
              </li>
              <li>
                Need to export to report
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            How to break down reports
            <ul>
              <li>
                new users per what time period
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            How to ingest old logs
            <ul>
              <li>
                How to access
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            ATO process - since sumo didn&#39;t actually go through process
            <ul>
              <li>
                We need a project name to put in ATO spreadsheet for Eric Scott
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    EVS Statistical Dashboard
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    Jason will review process for EVS Exporter that they went through with Sharif.
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>
                Manish claims platform ATO
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Need very simple instructions on how to approach and use dashboard
          </li>
          <li>
            How to administer user accounts
            <ul>
              <li>
                We ask specifically for user accounts for specific users
              </li>
              <li>
                We would have admin accounts
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    We would say which dashboards are visible to certain users
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    Process would need documentation
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Sitestats
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Not been very responsive with fixing logs previously
          </li>
          <li>
            Issues with log processor broken
          </li>
          <li>
            Will rely on same person to get any historical logs
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Future
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        <ul>
          <li>
            Still no word on Kumar replacement
          </li>
          <li>
            Any information given to Mayo on future plans
            <ul>
              <li>
                Option year extended to 2022, Aug 30
              </li>
              <li>
                Meeting with Lyuba on Friday
              </li>
              <li>
                Touching base with PIIs they have worked with previously
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Any information given to MSC on future plans
            <ul>
              <li>
                No news
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            No future information for Leidos
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Wiki
      </td>
      <td colspan="1"></td>
      <td colspan="1">
        Possibly being retired - still waiting for hard news
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20210901Meetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>