<h2 id="id-20220302Meetingnotes-Date">
  Date
</h2>
02 Mar 2022
<h2 id="id-20220302Meetingnotes-Attendees">
  Attendees
</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~safrant" rel="nofollow">
      Safran, Tracy (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20220302Meetingnotes-Goals">
  Goals
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="id-20220302Meetingnotes-Discussionitems">
  Discussion items
</h2>
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Time
      </th>
      <th>
        Item
      </th>
      <th>
        Who
      </th>
      <th>
        Notes
      </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        log4j
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Working its way through QA
            <ul>
              <li>
                lexevs-remote tests updated for data
              </li>
              <li>
                CTS2 on deck
              </li>
              <li>
                Unknown browser pending
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        VM migration
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Chuck to cut over dev URLs this week
            <ul>
              <li>
                server shutdown after URLs verified
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            QA work still pending
          </li>
          <li>
            Mark Benson set up meeting Monday at 3PM
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Sumo
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            List of users added to Sumo
            <ul>
              <li>
                Lyubov may still need to be added?
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Some collectors waiting on the URL change for dev
          </li>
          <li>
            Exporter and EVS Rest API trying to get Apache proxies in place
            <ul>
              <li>
                Jason working on that
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Domain resolver.  Have no permanent solution but working on prototypes.
            <ul>
              <li>
                Leaning towards a service rather than the current script
              </li>
              <li>
                Still likely to be attached to URI resolver - need architecture meeting
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        MedDRA
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        New SOP needed. Need to discuss with Lori who will actually do the work.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Vocabulary data
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Looks like GO and ChEBI are still February. Will check again tomorrow.Meta possible this Friday
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Swathi vacation
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Will be off most of March. Any major projects coming in that time?Possibly try and push compare up before then. Otherwise might fall to Itendra.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        EVS Compare
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>
            With Kathy trying to clear administrative hurdles.  Will need to do that before meeting with engineering
          </li>
          <li>
            Security has not responded yet to our contact
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Report Exporter
      </td>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        1.1.3 passed QA and is being scanned.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="id-20220302Meetingnotes-Actionitems">
  Action items
</h2>
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>