<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Date
      </th>
      <td>
        16 Feb 2023
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
      <td>
        Bento Team
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="BentoSprint6Retrospective-Retrospective">
  Retrospective
</h2>
<h3 id="BentoSprint6Retrospective-Wheredidweimprove?">
  Where did we improve?
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/smile.svg" alt="(smile)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything that went well in this sprint including shout out to others that went out of their way to help (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    We are making great progress refactoring Bento and it is reassuring to see that we are coming in ahead of schedule for some of the components as ultimately that will give the ICDC project a bit more cushion for the refactoring they need to do downstream of our efforts. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I&#39;m happy we are thinking about how we will be updating the Bento Documentation to reflect the refactored components. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Refactoring went smoothly, tables, global search and admin portal are all complicated components! (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    We are becoming more efficient at investigating and resolving issues, specific example was the Bento slider filter bug that Young was able to resolve in less than one working day! This bug existed in other Bento projects and the impact was limited by this quick turnaround (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muelleras" rel="nofollow">
      Mueller, Austin (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Reiterating the comments above, I am pleased to report that our refactoring efforts are progressing very well and we have made significant progress. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I appreciate Karan, Ming, and Ambar checking in with me and answering my questions about the Admin Portal components (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~leej66" rel="nofollow">
      Lee, Joon (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="BentoSprint6Retrospective-Whatareasstillneedimprovement?">
  What areas still need improvement?
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/sad.svg" alt="(sad)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything that we could have done better in this sprint (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    Hoping we can improve communication between the team. I don&#39;t see a lot of action in our Slack channels (bento-dev), it would be nice to see PRs posted and reviews and technical questions that arise and the solutions that follow. Perhaps this is happening in a channel that I don&#39;t know about? I think transparency of communication is really critical for everyone to be on the same page and to grow together. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Related to the comment above, I think it is a welcomed practice and courtesy to acknowledge team messages with a quick emoji just to let them know that you have seen and read the message. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Lots of tickets are being blocked in to &#34;Ready for Review&#34; queue. I hope I can improve on that part and provide faster review results. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    For the backend tickets specifically, we have made progress in overall ticket management but there is still a lot of room for improvement (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muelleras" rel="nofollow">
      Mueller, Austin (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="BentoSprint6Retrospective-Whatyouhavelearned?">
  What you have learned?
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/lightbulb_on.svg" alt="(lightbulb)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything you learned about in this sprint (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    I had some time to work on JBrowse in the ICDC and have added text search so that users can search the reference genome by gene names. This feature is deployed to the ICDC Dev environment. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I learned how to set up &#34;monorepo&#34; using Lerna. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Local state management in Admin Portal components (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~leej66" rel="nofollow">
      Lee, Joon (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I learned about access token management and the pros and cons of various invalidation strategies (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muelleras" rel="nofollow">
      Mueller, Austin (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    React component generators from Alec and Ambar&#39;s commits (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~leej66" rel="nofollow">
      Lee, Joon (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
Actions 