<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col/>
    <col/>
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Date
      </th>
      <td>
        23 Feb 2023
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Participants
      </th>
      <td>
        Bento Team
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2 id="BentoSprint5Retrospective-Retrospective">
  Retrospective
</h2>
<h3 id="BentoSprint5Retrospective-Wheredidweimprove?">
  Where did we improve?
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/smile.svg" alt="(smile)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything that went well in this sprint including shout out to others that went out of their way to help (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    It really seems like we are starting off very strong with the FE Refactoring Effort, nice job and keep up the good work! (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
  </li>
  <li>
    Frontend team adapted to the new design quickly and finished all planed tasks for this sprint, that&#39;s awesome, kudos to the team! (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    New approach for component configuration. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Congratulations to the team for successful release of Bento 3.10.0 (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I would like to give kudos to Frontend team for refactoring complex components in short amount of time frame. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="BentoSprint5Retrospective-Whatareasstillneedimprovement?">
  What areas still need improvement?
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/sad.svg" alt="(sad)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything that we could have done better in this sprint (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    I still see tickets that don&#39;t have story points during a sprint (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I think we should try to include &#34;Acceptance Criteria&#34; for user stories that are very technical in nature so that there are clear expectations for the QA team (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Our initial plan missed a couple of small components, and also didn&#39;t realize dependency between cart component and the table. We (I mean I) need to do better planning next time. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Short time for learning and applying new concepts (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    If I can create tickets for upcoming sprints early on it will be helpful for the team to have early view rather then just learning about new tickets in Planning Session. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    We need to make an effort to continuously keep project dependencies up to date as new versions are released so we that we can minimize our security risk (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muelleras" rel="nofollow">
      Mueller, Austin (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
<h3 id="BentoSprint5Retrospective-Whatyouhavelearned?">
  What you have learned?
  <img src="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/s/-y6pnqc/8804/nk8x3c/_/images/icons/emoticons/lightbulb_on.svg" alt="(lightbulb)"/>
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    List anything you learned about in this sprint (add your name after your comment)
  </li>
  <li>
    I am getting the opportunity to learn more about URIs (Unique Resource Identifiers) that are a part of the Data Repository Service (DRS) which will ultimately help us to implement an &#34;Export Files&#34; button to the Cancer Genomics Cloud (CGC) (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~kuffelgr" rel="nofollow">
      Kuffel, Gina (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    Writing frameworks needs a completely different mindset from writing application. Best practice for writing application might not be best for a framework. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~yingm3" rel="nofollow">
      Ying, Ming (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    MVC pattern for configuration. (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~ranaab" rel="nofollow">
      Rana, Ambar (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I learned a lot about dependency upgrading tools and processes as well as best practices associated with this that can be implemented into our future work processes (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muelleras" rel="nofollow">
      Mueller, Austin (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
  <li>
    I learned about access-token based authentication and how it can benefit Bento when we implement token-based authentication in the next Sprint (
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~muelleras" rel="nofollow">
      Mueller, Austin (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    )
  </li>
</ul>
Actions
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    we need to create tickets to update Bento-docs with new configurations from refactored components.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/~shethkb" rel="nofollow">
      Sheth, Karan (NIH/NCI) [C]
    </a>
    we need to find out old bug regarding to sidebar slider and hand it over to QA team for testing.
  </li>
</ul>